---
layout: post
title: "Renaissance: A Personal Approach to the Future of Lexicology"
---

Among the three elements of a language, pronunciation, grammar and vocabulary, vocabulary is the most active and relatively most important. A comparison of the words "vocabulary", "lexis", and "lexicon" would show that the three items might be more or less synonymous. The key difference between them is that "vocabulary" is more colloquial while "lexicon" is more learned and technical. But "What is lexicology"? For the purpose of an introductory course, lexicology might be defined as the study of lexis, which means the stock of words in a given language. In other words, lexicology is in a strategically advantageous position. Just like the philosophers are ambitious to master the universe by philosophy, most of us imagined commanding a large vocabulary by exploring the basic rules of vocabulary. We want to probe into the way the total stock of English words structured and organized. The ideal is plump; reality is bone feeling. The language is so complex that it cannot always be studied, we must consider if it were autonomous. Worse still, lexicology, as a level of language analysis, is only methodological and does not always reflect the way language operates when it is used by its speakers. Despite all that, I would like to predict the future of lexicology through a personal approach.

First, the investigation of the vocabulary will be revolutionized by the computer, especially as storage capacity and processing speed have increased incredibly. It appeared that lexicologists generally have three sources to linguistic data: introspection, the lexicologists use their own knowledge as the data; elicitation, which usually involves the construction of a questionnaire to collect about some aspect of language; corpora, the primary source and the bedrock of the lexicologists data, which is a "body" of material. However, the new technology available for data-processing and text-based research will undoubtedly lead to radical changes in the theory and practice of lexicology. Electronic dictionaries make it possible to for lexicologists to check their list of dictionary entries against the list of words occurring in recent edition of a newspaper in a fraction of the time allowing extensive and rapid searching and yield much information. What’s more, electronic dictionaries could be stored in a different way as their counterparts. The space restrictions of a printed book will not be replicated in the electronic form, and words could be stored both as an alphabetical list and by lexical field with appropriate cross-referencing and hyper-links. In the meantime, computer corpora of texts will represent a fundamental source of data; for example, the "Bank of English" at the University of Birmingham in England includes large quantities of text ranging from newspapers to essays and articles accessible in machine-readable form. By using a computer program as the tool of analysis, for any search request of a word, phrase or any string of letters, a list of each occurrence of the string together with context will jump to screen. Such a list enables a lexicologist to understand how a word changes or is used. Imagine the lexicographical process fully automated, one thing is for sure, big data mining will surely make a real difference. 

Second, the phenomenon that more and more borrowed words occurring in the English vocabulary will make lexicology somehow embarrassing. Due to globalization and the Internet linking people all around the world, people communicate with each other and languages communicate with each other more than ever. It is often the case that non-native speakers can’t find the exact word to convey what they want say, they resort to borrow the words in their native language as a result. From a biology perspective, the borrowed words will destroy the lexical environment as well as linguistic stabilization just as alien invasive species to a certain extent, which might shake the lexicon to its very core in the long term. The dilemma lexicology might be facing actually reveals the fundamental defects of contemporary lexicology. Lexicology makes every effort to find how the already existing words structured and organized and trace its development. But isn’t it more important to predict what language will be like in a hundred years? This is worth thinking not because we'll actually and eventually use that language, but if we're lucky, we'll use it from now on. The great invasion conducted by borrowed words in reality inspires us that, like species, languages will form evolutionary trees, with dead-ends branching all over. For example, Latin, for all its sometime popularity, is at an evolutionary dead-end. Apparently, compared with analyzing the evolutionary process always one step behind, lexicology should have made a switch. The real job of lexicology is to raise the issue of evolutionary trees and get people asking, where on the tree is this language, English for instance. It is not aimed for proving the wisdom of the lexicologist’s ghost in a hundred years. But, if lexicologists could guide us to stay close to the main branch, it is of useful heuristic for finding languages that will be good to use right now. It has to be admitted that, as notation but not science, languages evolve slowly. With no chance of giant leaps which are common in science, in turn, makes it possible in principle for lexicologists to design a stock of words now that would appeal to people in a hundred years. 

Research positions imply restrictions on lexicologists. The distinction between good and average lexicologists is usually based on how sturdy their research papers appear, rather than how important their work is for. It’s ridiculous that people studying lexicology rarely say anything that would be of the slightest beneficial to lexicology. Let’s draw the conclusion. Machine is the rogue to grab lexicologist’s job and the saviour to make them do what really counts. This is the very renaissance of lexicology.
 
# References
[1]. M. A. K. Halliday and Colin Yallop. 2007. Lexicology A Short Introduction. Cromwell Press, Trowbridge, Wiltshire.  
[2]. Howward Jackson and Etienne Zé Amvela. 2004. Words, Meaning and Vocabulary AN INTRODUCTION TO MODERN ENGLISH LEXCICOLOGY. ARS, NY and DACS, London.  
[3]. Paul Graham. 2010. Hackers & Painters: Big Ideas from the Computer Age. O'Reilly Media.
