---
layout: post
title: "Disillusion: An Emotional Approach to 'Araby'"
---

The story is told in a pale and bleak tone, almost everything is blind to beauty and arranged in its wild state without polishing or highlights: the wild garden contained a few straggling bushes; our shouts echoed in the silent street. It is to be noted that the boy was lacking in the ability to make judges on the trivial settings he's accustomed to. For example, the fact he liked The Memoirs of Vidocq best for its leaves were yellow hinted that he had no longings for good things and no aesthetic ideas.

The girl is the one who stopped him from a walking dead idling away his youth: her name was like a summons to all my foolish blood; I bore my chalice safely through a throng of foes. After he spoke with the girl, he realized how daily life intolerable without the beauty: I wished to annihilate the tedious intervening days. Everything changed then, he even got bored with the monotonous child's play. Just as Adam and Eve stealthily ate the fruit from the intelligence tree, growing up isn't a gradual process but in a single instant.

The journey to the bazaar might be first quest he'd taken in his life and he started his adventure. But the adventure was far from the romance he had imagined. The uncle gave the boy money and the young lady asked the boy if he wished to buy anything both out of a sense of duty of being parent or seller. The boy allowed the two pennies to fall against the sixpence in his pocket indicates the decaying and deserted surroundings. The boy's disillusion with the vanishing of best wishes is inevitable which is also an awakening of life. The other side of light is shadow, he had to be alive to the nature of life, which is just pale and bleak. 

To be frank, I'm really impressed by the ending that the boy's eyes burned with anguish and anger. I can sense his loneliness, agony, distress and despair. I really appreciate that.